[Music]
Thank you all for coming. Um,
this is a new presentation of new
material and so I'm assuming that
everyone is up to speed on all the old
material.
If that's not the case, we're going to
do a very quick review, but we're not
going to do um I'm not going to start
from the beginning again because if I do
that, we'll be here all night. And so
this is new material. Also, I want to
ask everyone to be a little patient. I'm
going to do the hard troublesome math
type stuff first and then get into the
stuff that's easy to understand and new
material later. So bear with it for a
little while. But I do think it's worth
updating what we've done before and um
writing some of the intermediate things
and then the new material.
The the title of of the talk tonight is
a matrix of meaning for sacred
alphabets. And although I'm only going
to be dealing with the Hebrew alphabet,
what I'm saying appears to be true by
and large for the Arabic and the Greek
alphabet and in some related ways we
think with some of the Eastern
traditions as well, Tibetan perhaps, but
I haven't done that work. Um, so I'm
going to use the Hebrew. And we know
that the Greek alphabet is related to
the Hebrew and we know that the Arabic
alphabet is related to the Hebrew. They
both have the same numerological
connection. A is one, alpha is one. I
don't know what the Arabic name is, but
the A letter is always one. And they all
have the same numerical value. And you
can parallel these alphabets. And they
also have the same
equivalent with English, except in
English, we only have 26 letters. In
Hebrew, they're 27 in the full alphabet.
The letter that's missing is near the
middle of the alphabet, and it's the one
that I I use an English dollar sign for
that. It doesn't have anything to do
with a dollar sign. So I think the thing
to do is for me to try to follow my
outline which is very difficult for me
to do and if we do that then we should
be able to accomplish what I hope we can
accomplish tonight. So thank you all for
coming. Um this work is done on the
under the opaces of the Meu Foundation
which is a nonprofit foundation. Um some
of the other people here can help you
with information about what we're doing
if you're curious. And there are
videotapes of the old material and the
update material. And we're making a new
tape now for the new material. So if
anyone wants to get caught up, there
tapes available here and they're also at
Cody's on Telegraph A.
Okay. What we're going to do is we're
going to rediscover the obvious. If it
isn't going to turn out to be obvious
when we're done, then it probably wasn't
right. And so this is going to be a
rediscovery of what it's hard to believe
isn't known. Um I certainly find it hard
to believe that some of these ideas are
not known. at least the bottom line
ideas we'll get to at the end. We're
going to be talking about
how we generate letters of the alphabet
and we're going to be talking about the
meaning of sacred alphabets and their
relationship to both the physical world
and to the spiritual world and that's
the primary model the relationship of
the two parts of reality. We exist in an
external reality, physical reality and
we have an internal reality, our
consciousness. Um, inside is our
consciousness, outside is the physical
world. And that relationship between
inside and outside is the basis for this
whole presentation. In fact, that's the
first letter of the text of Genesis is
the letter B. And the letter B stands
for the distinction between inside and
outside. It means a house. And we'll get
into some of that as we go on.
Um we're going to talk about not only um
some of these forms which many of you
have seen over the years but now finally
I'm going to try to identify some of
these forms um a little better. Um,
we've gone through in the past what
happened when we uh attempted to look at
the beginning of Genesis in Hebrew.
And what we found is I'm not going to I
didn't bring the the the large posters
for that, but this pyramid shaped
object, as you can see, has letters that
are all paired up. Some of the letters
aren't the same, and we'll talk about
that, too. These are the letters of the
Hebrew text of Genesis, the first verse.
And all that's happened here is we've
taken the first verse which should be up
on the wall and this you've seen from
before. We recognized it as the first
natural unit of the text and we took um
Carlos Suarez and other cobalists
opinion literally. Um the teaching is
that the secret of the whole universe of
everything we could ever know is in the
first letter of the sacred text. But if
you can't figure it out from the first
letter, it's repeated in greater detail
in the first word. If you can't figure
it out from the first word, it's
repeated in greater detail in the first
verse and the first day and the first
week and etc. Um, a description of a
hierarchical system. Well, obviously
when I started this, it wasn't too easy
to figure out the secret from the first
letter, but now it becomes clear why the
first letter has to be B. And that B
stands for a container, for a box, for a
house. the distinction between inside
and outside. And then what we did with
it with this sequence of Hebrew letters
is we noticed these patterns, which I've
talked about before, and I'm not going
to get into. We notice that the initial
B and the final Z, I'll use the English
names for the letters. They're they're
equivalent. Um, form a big olive, a big
A. And so it's as if the head and tail
of this snake that eats its tail comes
back on itself. And as we've seen
before, it forms this toidal loop.
In fact, that's what this pattern does.
This little pyramid-shaped object, which
is shaped this way for mathematical
reasons,
basically correlates the same letters
with themselves as you curl around the
first verse. You can think of sort of a
bead chain with each letter being on a
bead. And you can curl the chain around
so the same letters line up. That's all
I've done here. Um, this pattern is so
strong that correlates the letters at
the beginning of Genesis that you could
uniquely replace a letter if it had been
miscopied, which would have been a
horrible tragedy of course from
religious point of view by just
reference to the other letters of the
first verse. It's that deeply
self-reerential. It's that deeply
autocorrelated is that strong a pattern.
But it's important now for us to try to
figure out what these patterns
represent.
And what we found before that they
represented was a way of generating the
Hebrew alphabet. And that's what um the
basis of the previous work has been. And
so what we want to do now is expand on
that and find out how that works and
what else it implies.
We're going to be talking about some
mathematical objects um besides Arthur
Young's seven cycle,
the turn, the reflexive turn. We're also
going to be talking about material that
book Mr. Fuller mentions. Um we're going
to be talking about the Penrose Twister.
We'll mention that. Um some
hyperdimensional objects and some
reasons for why we would want to be
talking about so-called hyperdimensional
objects.
Okay.
The most important idea to keep in mind
is that everything that we're going to
be doing here is going to be based on
the lowest order, the simplest, the most
direct representation we can have.
That's the only one we can count on to
be universal. If as is claimed, these
sacred alphabets, the Hebrew alphabet is
a universal language, a universal
alphabet, then if a high order effect
had been picked, it wouldn't be
universal. It couldn't be intrinsic. it
couldn't be rediscovered independently
other places. But if we pick the most
elegant situation, that's a unique
situation and that's the one that we're
going to be looking for. And the
highest ideal we're going to be looking
at, what we think we're looking at here
in the terms of the Hebrew alphabet and
in terms of the text of Genesis is the
single most deeply self-mbed, most
deeply reflexive, if you will, most
deeply self- embedded system that is
possible.
Now, if I were to tell you that I had
the truth with a big T and it was in a
religious context, you would sort of
walk away and say, "Oh, yeah, another
guy knows the truth." But if I told you
that I had a truth and I talked about
the digits in pi, then you wouldn't have
a pro problem with that. Everyone knows
that pi is a fundamental truth of this
reality. The relationship of the radius
to the circumference of a circle. This
is a fundamental of our reality.
That's why we're going for the most
deeply self-mbed, the most deeply
reflexive system, a representation of
that. Because if we go for that extreme,
then we can have truth with a big T
without getting into theological
discussions, which really don't belong
here, I don't think.
And the the primary form that we're
going to be looking for, um, which I'm
going to tell you about as we go along,
is going to be this form. And I'll tell
you its name ahead of time so that as we
go through this you'll get a sense of
where I'm going with all this. I'm
calling this form naked recursion.
The idea is it's naked because it is
unmbellished. This is I'm alleging the
lowest order way that you can represent
the propensity of the universe to
propagate itself.
Raw naked unadorned recursion.
And that applies to any system that
recurs such as a biological system.
Acorn, oak tree, acorn, oak tree, acorn,
oak tree, chicken, egg, chicken, egg. I
don't have the chicken cut on the oak
tree, but you get the idea. Any system
that recurs is going to have this as a
fundamental part of it. And then we're
going to identify what this is. As you
know from before, let's let's just do
that so we don't make a big secret of
it. This object, this entirely
asymmetrical object, which in the past
we've identified as a flame, flame of
consciousness. Hebrew letters are said
to come from flame. Arabic letters are
said to come from flame. Shadows of that
ob of this object are all of these
Hebrew letters.
Same one object generates all of these
letters of the alphabet.
And I'll show you that when we get a
little farther along. I don't want to
get too far ahead of myself because I
want I do want to leave that towards the
end. Okay,
let's review
very quickly what we've done in the past
and I I think I just said it. uh we
found a pattern in the letters at the
beginning of Genesis that when we
expressed it in its most elegant form
produced this shape words this
say that that's the core of the to
yeah you can see you can actually see
that that in fact even though we're
dealing here with a flat donut rather
than a spherical donut what this form
really is is nothing but
the path of the seven color map of the
vortex on the donut in its lowest order
form. Now, this is not exactly the right
shape for many reasons, but
topologically it's the right shape.
Geometrically, it's not. And that's the
second thing we want to deal with is is
determining the exact shape, which is
what wasn't available a couple of years
ago.
So, let's let's talk about that.
If you make a donut, an ideal donut,
mathematicians donut, this is the type
you typically make. It falls through
itself.
It's got two circular cross-sections. If
you slice it this way, it's a circle.
And if you slice it this way, it'll make
two circles side by side. This is fine
for mathematicians, but it doesn't tell
us how to make the shape. For instance,
if I simply took a spherical shape, a
dimpled sphere, which is going to be
closer to what we want here. I'll tell
you why in a minute. I would have a form
where the outside of the of the vortex
came along horizont horizontally.
Whereas on this form, as you can see, if
I compare it, it comes through
vertically. Why? Okay,
let's let's do that first.
What we're looking at, and fact, I think
I want I want to um
I want to read you a quote, I think.
Yeah, let's do that first.
Let's do that first.
Um, except I don't have it in this book.
I had Okay, this is a quote I've read
before and this is the key to the whole
to the whole process.
This is a discussion in the introduction
to the Zohar which is a cobalistic text
and I'll just read it to you and then
we'll talk about the key point. It's
called the lily. And it says, "The
students of Rabbi Shimon were assembled
together and sitting in silence, waiting
for the master to begin his discourse.
At length, Rabbi Shiman spoke and he
said, "As a lily among the thorns," and
I've talked about that before. The liies
are all of these vortex shapes, all of
the smooth shapes. In fact, you can see
if you look down into this, it looks
sort of like a lily, like a cow lily.
And the thorns are all a polyhedra. All
Well, there's a thorn. It looks a little
like a thorn. And when you put the two
two of them together, you're going to
make the system. So, continuing this
word lily, what does it mean and
symbolize? He says it symbolizes the
congregation of Israel. And the lily has
13 leaves surrounding it on all sides.
And we've talked that about that before.
If you make a sphere out of spheres,
there are 12 spheres around a central
sphere. You could take the outer set of
spheres to be the meat of a fruit and
the central sphere to be the seed. And
we'll see why that happens in a second.
For this reason, the lily symbolizes the
cup of blessing. And he goes on and
says, uh, well, let me just read it. As
there are five words between the second
and third Elo mentioned in the book of
Genesis, one of these words is ore,
meaning light. This light was treated.
Well, now we've got light. This light
was treated and became enclosed as an
embryo
in the covenant. And entering into the
lily as a principle of life made it
fruitful. And this is what is called in
Genesis fruit tree yielding fruit whose
seed is in itself. And as this life
principle entering into the covenant
caused itself to become manifest in 42
kinds of second matter. So it has
produced the 42let name of God which
operated in the creation of the world.
If you were to make another layer of
spheres, there would be 42 spheres. And
so we're identifying this figure. But
the key phrase here is fruit tree
yielding fruit whose seed is in itself.
If we take that literally, we can unfurl
the whole alphabet and all of its
meaning. And that's one of the things
that has happened recently.
If you look at a fruit, here's an
idealized fruit. It's a dimpled sphere.
One could abstract it. There's a star of
seeds in the middle. If you slice
through an apple horizontally, you'll
see a star of seeds in the middle and
two sort of elliptical cross-sections.
And one could put a
seven color map, a vortex on that donut,
on that dipple sphere. And then we would
have here's here's again our our fruit.
But this is a fruit tree bearing fruit
whose seed is in itself. So obviously in
the center there's got to be a fruit.
And between the seed and the fruit,
there has to be the life cycle of the
fruit tree. And that's the key to the
understanding of what's being said here.
From a seed to a tree to a fruit with
new seed inside is one complete cycle of
life.
It's a recursive cycle and it's a self-
embedment. After all,
the sphere in the middle representing
the seed pack could itself be made up of
12 spheres and have a sphere in the
middle of it. And one could go
generation on generation from the seed
through the tree to the fruit with a
seed, plant that seed, grow a new tree,
and one could have acorn and oak tree,
acorn and oak tree endlessly, infinitely
long. And since we can't examine an
infinite series because we don't last
long enough to do it, we have to look at
just one module of the series, one one
section. And that's the section from the
seed through the tree to the fruit with
the new seed inside. And that's a
relationship between inside and outside
because we're going from inside where
the seeds are to outside where the fruit
is. If you look down on it, you see this
little heart with a star in the middle
of it. You can compare this fruit by the
way which basically stretches itself
generation after generation between the
earth and the sun to a spiritual
situation where our hearts because the
fruit looks just like a heart stretches
between physical reality and spiritual
reality that we reach we span our
lifetimes. that same process. When we're
born, we're all physical and we don't
have much developed consciousness. And
when we age, our physicality starts to
deteriorate, but hopefully we're
building an emery of consciousness
inside.
And so when we're when we're when we're
finished with our life cycle, we're all
spirit and we're very little matter. And
then theoretically, the process
restarts. And so this is the metaphor
between a fruit tree and our own
spiritual growth that we are the tree
now growing between our birth and our
death. We we we are spanning between
inside and outside on our chain of
being.
Okay. Now, just to just to tidy up, and
this is in some of the material that's
available. Um
Grace at the door, I think, has some of
the papers that that show some of these
things.
What's going to determine the shape of
this curve?
Well, if we just had a point in there,
if this seed model was a dead thing,
just an idealized point, a mathematical
point, a cartisian point, we'd have very
little. But a seed isn't an idealized
point. The seed has life force in it
somehow. And we need, if we're going to
make a geometric model, we need to have
some sort of a model for that life
force. Well, in this model, it appears
that that the analog, the metaphor for
the life force is angular momentum.
that it's because there is an intrinsic
spin in the seed
that the seed unfurs. And so one can
look at
this shape and one can say that's the
seed and this is the stem erupting from
the seed and this is the unfurling of
leaves and branches and this is the
fullness of the fruit comes to fruition.
And so this is the whole life cycle from
inside to outside from the seed to the
fruit.
Now, if we're going to be modeling the
life force by angular momentum, then we
have to conserve angular momentum and
that's what determines the shape of the
curve. You don't have to have a lot of
physics to know what's going to happen.
If you have a dancer and the dancer is
spinning, has angular momentum in them.
They're spinning. They spin very quickly
when their arms are in close and they
slow down when they put their arms out.
Now the cobalistic descriptions say that
the arms of the universe go to infinity.
If you could put your arms at infinity
then you would come to a stop. That's
what's determining the shape of the
curve. You see here the sprout all the
energy of the life force of the fruit of
the seed I'm sorry is erupting along the
new stem the new sprout and there's not
much width. Then at the top of the
sprout you get this little pair of
leaves and then you start to unfurl the
rest of the plant and it reaches its its
maximum unfurlment in any particular
year life cycle and then it build then
it starts to bud and flower and make
fruit and eventually the flowers fall to
the ground and the seed is thrown to the
wind and falls to the ground and a new
cycle starts. So, what we're saying here
is that all of this momentum has to be
spent by the time you get to the fruit
because it's going to collapse that down
again to that center point. So, when you
get to the outside, you're going to
break you're going to grow a new a new
seed in the middle and transfer that
momentum. Now, we know that a real fruit
doesn't look like a donut. A real fruit
is more closely approximated. This is
the work of an artist named um I think
it's Charles Adams in New York made this
a number of years ago. He called it
Genesis by the way. A real fruit if I
can figure out where it opens. There it
is. Has these elliptical cross-sections.
It's a dimpled sphere. But nevertheless,
the minimum way of representing the
self-reerential quality, the life
cycling quality, the seed out to fruit
and then back to seed.
is the seven colored map that defines
the surface of the donut. Just because
it's a dimple sphere doesn't change the
topology in it. It's still going to have
these same seven sections.
So we now have three criteria which I'm
saying should be able to determine this
shape uniquely. One, we have to be
modeling a real fruit and not somebody's
lunch,
somebody's cooked food lunch. We have to
have a real a real snack, a real a real
apple, a dimpled sphere. We have to
conserve angular momentum because we're
representing the light force
and
it has to have this seven color map
which can be minimally expressed in
three turns for one turn through or
alternately three turns through for one
turn around. This is the only two ways
that one can minimally make the seven
color map. But again, we're going with
AAM's razor here. We're going to try to
go for the most elegant minimum state.
Obviously, you can make all kinds of
vortexes on all kinds of donuts, but the
two ways that one can do it minimally
are just these three in one or one and
three turns. Two and two turns come
apart. You don't make a donut. And zero
and four turns isn't any turns at all.
So, the only ways that you the only ways
you can make the seven color map for the
type frame these two forms.
Why do you divide the donut into seven
regions?
Because the topology that defines the
surface of the donut says that there is
a seven color map. In other words,
creating a seven color map is the
equivalent to creating a donut. For
instance, this
only a mathematician could get nutrition
out of this doughut. This is very flat
and very square. But it has all the
qualities of a donut. It connects its
left to its right, its top to its
bottom. After all, if you were going to
make a donut, you would connect top to
bottom and left and right. And this tube
would come around and form a donut. and
the topologists have proven that the
minimum way to represent that surface is
with this seven color map. So that's
something that that you have to take as
for purposes of this discussion as a
given. It's topological truth. Also as
Arthur points out the relationship
between reflexive process and the
surface of the donut. I suggest you read
the reflexive universe for detailed
discussion of that probably better than
I could do.
Now,
this is
one new piece of information because
last year, the year before, we didn't
know why this shape worked and this
shape didn't work.
And that leads us to a key idea.
We are going to be taking topological
forms that are minimal, but we're going
to embody them geometrically in ways
that represent living things. In other
words, we're putting an additional
constraint. If we didn't have a
geometric constraint, we could use this
form of donut. But because we're
modeling a fruit tree,
excuse me, Stan, will that show the all
the seven touching one another?
Yes. Yes.
Oh, that does. In fact,
in fact, I'll show you how good a
metaphor for a living thing this is. If
I had a stem here and I pushed this down
on the stem, watch the leaves unfurl
along the stem. If this was drawn flat,
those would be rectalinear regions. But
you see the leaf shaped sections coming
out.
It's as if I were pulling it down the
stem and it's literally unfurling these
leaves each colored region and and it
makes a golden mean spiral on the plant.
The photaxis of leaf unfurlment on on a
plant on a plant stem. So it's an
exceedingly accurate model of embryionic
growth. It really does I'm going to show
you some more parts of it as we go on.
Um,
so that's this section and this is
covered on the videotape called Code of
Many Colors which we did as a
supplement. There was another section
that I wanted to cover that was should
clear up some confusion and maybe people
have been wondering about it. You may
remember a number of years ago I brought
out this little Rubik cube which has a
Hebrew letter on each little cubby and I
realized that it was the symmetry of
this cube which has all 27 letters on it
because it's 3x3x3. So there's 27
cubies, 27 letters. They were in
alphabetical order layer by layer on a
cartisian coordinate system. You can
review that. But I never knew and what I
what I found is a very strange thing. I
didn't didn't bring the same model, but
if you look at the at the first verse of
Genesis, you notice something very
strange. You notice that there are
letters that occur an even number of
times in the first verse and they're on
the axis of symmetry. And you know, let
notice that letters occur,
some letters occur, say this one occurs
1, two, three times, and other letters
occur one time. And I'm matching these
letters up. What gave me the right to do
that? They're not the same letters. What
I found worked but didn't know why it
worked was that the letters that are
paired up in 3 to one proportion are on
opposite sides of the cube. And so I
have if I hold this properly here it is
I have an M opposite an E. Again I'm
using the English names. I have um a T
opposite an F and those are the two that
I'm showing over here. So it's the
symmetry of the alphabet that enables us
to correlate the text to find these
patterns.
Matter of fact, here is a text
written in an alphabet that curls itself
up into a form that cast shadows that
are the letters that the text is written
in. Fruit tree yielding fruit whose seed
is in itself. That is very self
embedded. That is very self-reerential.
That's a very reflexive process. It's
creating its own letters in which it's
written. Again, this is a key idea.
But where did this come from? Obviously,
Dr. Rubic didn't exist at the time that
Ezra
re put the Torah and the Bible back
together again about 500 B.CE. This
didn't exist although there were maps
that like this that were used by the
Greeks at around the time of the
Septuagent translation about 300 B.CE.
But there was no legitimacy to this.
Well, it turns out that if one instead
of taking this donut, which makes this
shape, which one gets the letters from,
if one took this donut, which if one
looks the black lines,
makes these three little loop-de-loops
and fits the donut through it. Then
coming over here, look at what you get.
Here's my three loops defining the
surface of the donut with the seven
color maps strung on it. And here are
three loops also which I've strung the
alphabet on. You just follow it around.
Now I've just as the first verse does,
I've spliced the B and the final Z, the
final tidy at the end together to form a
big olive. And then all the other
letters are just arranged in
alphabetical order on this very
symmetrical form which defines the
donuts.
But when I do that, guess what? These
concentric rings are exactly the same as
the letters that are in opposite pairs
on the Rubik cube. What a surprise. Four
layers, four trees of life, if you will,
unfurling from a central point.
Now, I know this doesn't really belong
here, but it's kind of amusing and I I
sort of have to do it. Um there's a
wonderful new book written recently by
um famous physicist um Steven Hawking
where he starts off talking about um the
standard um bane of all physics
conferences on cosmology where somebody
in in tennis shoes raises their hand
says but the teachings are that a turtis
a to a turtle holds up the world and he
makes fun of the fact there's this
ancient cosmology about how a tortoise
holds up the world. The funny thing is
we're looking at the text of Genesis.
We're looking at the alphabet said to be
the alphabet of creation. The letters
being evidence of creation. And this
word in the middle si bake zb in Hebrew
means tortoise.
Not only that, but we're looking at a
donut. And this is a donut. And that's a
tortoise shell.
You see, the hex map that makes the
seven color map is the same as the
pattern on the back of a tortoise.
So maybe the ancients weren't so stupid.
Maybe the guy that told the story didn't
understand where it came from. But maybe
if you went back far enough, there was
an ancient worldview that knew something
about the pattern of six around one, the
pattern on a donut. In fact, that's
likely to be the case.
Okay, let's leave that. Um there's one
more catching up section that I want to
show you and this is um a little more
complicated.
So let's let's get them out of the way
one at a time. This one basically shows
us that the symmetry that we use to
correlate the text to make these
patterns is also traditionally
meaningful without resorting to Rubic
cubes and is based on the same donut
except taking the donut in its other
form. One form makes the letters and the
other form arranges the letters. And
we'll see in more detail how that works
later. Now, one of the criticisms of
what I've been doing over the years has
been all the cobalistic texts say you
should use the 22let Hebrew alphabet and
I've been using a 27 letter Hebrew
alphabet. Why in the world am I using
why am I using these extra five letters?
Well, in Hebrew, if you write a word and
you use a letter, one of five letters in
the middle of the word, you draw it in
one way. And if you if it happens to be
at the end of a word, it has a final
form. You draw it differently. And there
are five letters that have final forms.
And it's taught that they contain the
secret of redemption,
that they somehow redeem something. It's
not clear what, but let's assume they
redeem the alphabet perhaps. The
question is, where do these five letters
come from? Why should we have these five
final letters? What do they have to do
with anything? And and and and how do
they relate? How do the 22 and the 27
relate? Well, what we discovered is that
if one looks at a 1/3 unit module of
Buckminister Fuller's model of the
tetrahelix DNA double helix, there are
exactly 22 faces.
Isn't that nice? Because that means we
can fit the Hebrew letters on them. In
fact, what I've done here is simply
wrapped the alphabet around the form
going in this order. Olive, bake,
gimmel, doll, hey, etc. And wrapped it
around this way. And then what I've done
is peeled it off this way. So let's do
that.
Wow. It's an interesting thing to try.
And it's a long story as to why we did
that, but here it is. This is the here
here's my my tetrahelix
with the letters wrapped around it. I
slit one of the edges and fold it flat,
slice it up, and I make these three
sections. And then I can read the
alphabet off in a new order. um A F G L
M Z QB C H J doesn't make any sense all
garbled.
But when we put these three on the three
loops of the first distinction in not
theory, the trifolium, the Tfoil knot,
after all, the donut is the first
distinction one can make in nothingness.
You have a universe that's composed of
transparent homogeneous isotropic cosmic
jell-o and you try to make a form that
sustains in that jell-o. You just cut a
balloon of jell-o out of a sea of
jell-o, you got nothing because it sinks
back into the jello when you can't tell
where the boundaries were. But if God
goes fat lux, let there be light and
puffs into the jello, the jello starts
to fall through itself and forms a
toidal vortex.
Again, as Arthur points out, as I praise
points out, that lowest order form that
can self- sustain, that can be detected,
that's made of the same material as this
cosmic jello is the donut is the tutors.
So the donut shape is the first
distinction in the cosmic goo. And the
tfoil knot, the simple knot,
this knot is the small lowest
distinction in knot theory. It's the
simplest way you can tie a thing so it
stays tied. Same form.
Well, if we then put our alphabet in
this new order on this form, we discover
some very interesting things.
Mostly, we discover that the letters
that turn out to be the final letters,
which are these letters M, Z, N, K, and
P turn out to be on the extremities of
the form.
In fact, they are the what you would do.
Let's say you wanted to make a
hyperdimensional object, but we only
have three dimensions. Normally, what we
do to make a hyperdimensional object, we
put a little cube inside of a big cube
to make a hyper cube. If we could make a
little donut to fit inside of our big
donut, then it would be like extending
it into the next reality, recurring it,
having it go over, spill over to the
next manifestation from one generation
to the next. Well, that's what's going
on. The three letters
that are on the perimeter, K, M, and N
are on the ends of the loop here, here,
and here. The P is up here and the Z is
down here. Well, that's nice because P
means mouth and Z means tree, more or
less. We're going to get into that in
more detail later. And so, you start
from your mouth to what you stand on,
your uprightness, your tree, your body
part. And around your perimeter, there
are three. And so what we've done is
basically make a little itty bitty donut
that sort of either sits outside or
inside the original donut. And those
become the final letters.
And in fact, it's going to turn out that
there is a direct relationship between
the 22 and the 27. We'll get to that as
we go on a little further.
Okay. Now,
that pretty much catches us up on the
old material. Wait, there's one more
piece I want to do. I guess maybe I
should do it. This is our seven color
map that makes the uh the Taurus.
These are the 22 letters that form on
the surface of this this tetrahelix. But
if I open it up this way, it also puts
the letters on the surface of the donut.
In fact, instead of having seven colors
making the donut, I have a sequence of
22 regions, 22 colors if you will, that
make up the donut. And they can self-
embed each other. I can go make little
donuts inside of big donuts inside of
big donuts, etc. So if a donut has seven
colors, a doughnut of donuts has 49
colors and altogether that's 50 and
that's the jubilee and that's another
unit of the system. It's a generation of
generations, a life cycle of life
cycles, if you will.
Okay. Now I want to leave the older
material and I want to go on to what
we've been doing recently which is the
most exciting part which is what I hope
you guys came for because this is what I
really um this gets me a little shaky
myself. It's it's too unbelievable. So
use your own judgment. I want to read a
couple of quotes now. Um just to give a
little background and provide a little
little break and then we're going to dig
in some of the uh the nitty-gritty here.
I hope actually it's going to start
getting simpler after a while. So don't
don't get spooked. Stay with me. First I
want to say something about these
symbols that are all around us. These
are symbols. These are models. And one
of one of my favorite um authors in this
regard, although he doesn't know much
about the the Jewish end of the
tradition, he knows a lot about the
Greek and the classical and there's a
lot of parallels is Keith Critow. He's
got a little book, I don't know if I
brought it. Yes, I did. A little book I
picked up years ago. It's actually a
pamphlet probably from a paper he gave
called the soul as sphere and androgene.
And I don't quite know why he calls it
that anymore, but he says something
about these sacred symbols.
He says this primordial movement in the
sphere sometimes called the emergence of
time in space which not only gives birth
to our world of change and
differentiation but is expressed in
traditional cosmologies as concentric
eusions of consciousness concentric
spheres. Let me get to those.
I find it a little bit. Yeah. Um but is
expressed in traditional cosmized
concentric confusions of consciousness.
True symbols as distinct from mere signs
express these fundamental patterns in
their own way. It's important to
remember that symbols have a sacred
function. This is why I'm reading the
quotas for this definition. By sacred in
this instance is meant knowledge that is
essential to normal orderly evolution
through the physical, emotional,
intellectual and spiritual spheres to
full integration. The function of
symbols is to quote unquote throw
together or fuse experiences into
significances directed toward a state of
recollection.
Then he goes on to say, "The cosmologies
of concentric spheres solve the
perennial paradox of unity in diversity
or quote coming into being," unquote
within being. The envelopes of
consciousness which veil the blinding
light of reality require careful and
controlled penetration with love,
discipline, and determination.
Yet simply and ultimately the unique
unity and union are one.
That's the same point as the cobists are
making. Fruit tree yielding fruit whose
seed is in itself. The credo of Judaism
what Abraham is credited with
discovering is the unity of inside and
outside.
There is a four-letter name and a
fiveletter name for God. The four-letter
name is the transcendent point within.
The fiveletter name is all there is. The
panop play the iminence of the universe.
Many people over the centuries have had
meditational experiences have come upon
that one point of life that meditational
transcendental point within. And people
for centuries have worshiped idols and
gods of all kinds. And everyone knows,
or at least most people in this room
know, that if you do your affirmations,
even if it's to a pagan golden calf or
something, you're going to get what you
want because the process of affirmation
causes manifestation.
The key to this teaching on which the
Abrahamic fates are based, on which the
Brahic fates are based, is that these
two manifestations of deity of divinity
are identical, are unique. That's what
Krishna was saying too that the god
within the point the meditational point
and the all there is the planetly of
nature in the physical world the god of
imminence are one are unity
inside outside and the process of
resolving them is also unity so I put
that on the table
now I want to also um
tell you something from a Jewish
perspective about some of these ideas
and I'm going to read you two quotes
from a translation of the separatier the
book of formation one of a coalistic
text by Rabbi Ari Kaplan who is no
longer lie but who was a great cobbist
and a mathematician and such and this is
the this this book on yira was assembled
after he died from his notes so it's not
not the best of his work it sort of
covers everything he says um with regard
to the alphabet something that's very
interesting and it pertains to what
we're going to be doing here he says the
letters are said to pertain to
foundation.
That's the on the tree of life. Since it
is only through the letters that wisdom
and understanding can come together and
be coupled. Wisdom and understanding.
Eh,
one is inside and one is outside.
As discussed earlier, wisdom is pure
nonverbal thought. Understanding, on the
other hand, can only be verbal. Since if
an idea cannot be expressed verbally, it
cannot be understood. The only link
between non-verbal wisdom and verbal
understanding consists of the letters of
the alphabet.
That's what the point of this discussion
is going to be. Now, he's going to give
us a clue to this um much further along
in the book. And this is a little out of
context. He's discussing this the the
Mishnat the the chapter in in the in
sephiatira where they talk about the law
of 37 and 12 which is much confused and
he he covers all the standard
discussions and then he has a curious
thing to say he says the sequence 3712
can be defined in a number of ways one
which we have discussed earlier involved
the lines connecting the ciferat which
is on the tree of life on a more
sophisticated level this sequence can be
represented by a triangle a tetrahedrin
and a hyper tetrahedrin.
Now, that's the model that we're going
to be addressing here because we're
going to go from a low dimensional state
to a higher dimensional state and then
collapse back to the low dimensional
state and start over. One of the most
intriguing and interesting thing about
Arthur's theory is that you only need
3.9999
dimensions to do everything in because
when you hit four dimensions, you're
already back in the beginning. You
really don't have to go above it as the
physicists do. What you have to do is
remember to self- embed at the right
place. So if you start with a point
and you open up to a triangle to a
tetrahedrron, by the time you get to a
hyperteted, you're back to the point
again.
And that's what this mathematics and
some of the the drawings up here are
hopefully going to help us to see.
Okay. Um continuing further,
let's examine this process a little more
closely. Let's look at
the process
of this opening up from low dimension to
high dimension and and and self-
embedment again.
Um
there are several different ways we can
understand that and it's a little hard
to know where to start. So I guess I
have to start from what I found and work
backwards to save time. There are 27
letters in the Hebrew alphabet. It's a
strange number 3x3 by3.
It turns out this caught my attention
when I first heard of it. I think it was
S. Paul Serak, a physicist friend who
some of you know who first brought it to
my attention that there are two set two
places where this number 27 shows up in
in physics in in group theory that
underlies the the physics that they
they're using now. And the two places
are um discussed in a paper by um
Coxitter famous mathematician
and they relate to this set of 27 lines
or 27 points.
What Coxitter has been able to prove is
that if you were to have a sphere in
four dimensions,
it would be defined by the 27 lines that
are solutions to the general cubic
equation. And that those 27 lines
can be mapped identically one one to one
onto 27 points
in complex three-dimensional space on
the surface of a fivedimensional sphere
whatever that means. What we're going to
discover is you don't need all these
dimensions to do it if you figure out
what these dimensions are about. And
that's the key.
See, we're looking at a system that
unfurs seed fruit new seed fruit layer
on layer. Acorn, oak tree, acorn, oak
tree unfurling from from the beginning
of time all the way. And so our system
is concentric. This is what I I was
saying before when I was reading the
earlier quote about the idea of
concentric eusions of consciousness. The
idea we've all seen italistic in the
mystical text of these concentric shells
that they draw like an onion. They say
the world is like concentric shells.
Well, if we've got a concentric system,
then we can do some tricks. We can
reduce a higher dimensional system to a
lower dimensional system without losing
any of the symmetry. If we reduce it
along the radius, we collapse
concentrically.
Everything shrinks in and we're out. And
so the symmetry stay the same.
Well, let's do it and see what happens.
Let's let's let's find out what happens.
Um, what I want to present is a new way
of displaying imaginary reality. And I
want to identify it. In high school,
we're taught that one can have a complex
plane.
We can have an x-axis and then we can
have an iixaxis perpendicular to it. An
imaginary axis perpendicular right
angles to the real.
That's a convention. It doesn't have to
be at right angles. Mathematicians like
to draw at right angles because that
makes it simple for us to see that the
two directions are independent or
orthogonal.
But what if we were to say that the
imaginary is in our imagination, is
inside,
and that the real is real is the world.
And so instead of rotating 90 to get
between imaginary and real, let's say we
were to go between inside and outside.
But of course, if we were to simply make
two coordinate systems and they were
coincident with each other, then we
wouldn't be able to tell anything.
They'd be all blurred together. But we
know in nature the relationship, the
geometric relationship of inside to
outside because we know in nature, let's
see if I've got it up here someplace.
It's a little symbol, but you can see
it. We know about the nautilus shell. We
know about the golden mean function.
We know that as nature unfurs things,
nature unfurs things in golden mean
proportions. And the inside is one over
the golden mean as big as the outside.
and it continues to unfurl in golden
mean proportion. So if we were to make a
plane instead of making an imaginary
plane that has a real axis and an
imaginary axis at right angles, what if
we were to make the real and the
imaginary direction the same but make
the imaginary direction shorter in
scale? Have it only be 6/10 as big one
over the golden name. Then instead of
getting rectangular squares as our
surfaces in three dimensions, we would
get well actually these are not bad
because that's why the design of the
paper. We would get golden mean
rectangles as planes. The imaginary one
being shortened and the real axis being
lengthened. And if we were operating in
sixdimensional space, we would have an
interpenetration
of three of these golden mean planes.
And there they are. And each one of
these is an imaginary plane. One is an x
and x x and ix, y and i y, z and i z if
you want. There are other ways one can
arrange it. And what you'd end up with
is of course a sphere and a kosahhedral
sphere.
And if you were to look what you can do
with it, you can literally put these
vortex forms on both faces of the golden
mean triangles of golden mean rectangle
showing how they unfurl and you end up
having this icosahedron
representing complex three-dimensional
coordinate system. And then this
iicosahedron is our equivalent of the
five-dimensional sphere. And all we have
to figure out then is how we can arrange
27 points evenly
[Applause]
on this complex three-dimensional
form.
Well, figure it out. We've got 27 points
and they have to be evenly arrayed. Why
evenly? Because that's the whole point
of the 27. They're evenly arrayed on the
sphere. There are fundamental directions
on this hyperdimensional supposedly
hyperdimensional sphere. It's not so
hyperdimensional anymore because we can
see it. If they're evenly arranged and
there are six dimensions, then there
must be 27 / 6 points in each dimension.
Very simple. What other choice is there?
But 27 doesn't divide by six. You get
four and a half points per dimension. He
can't have a half a point. Even if Bart
could slice his points in half, we can't
cut our seed in half because the plant
will die. There's no half points in this
system. They're quantum. Quantum of
action actually in Arthur's terms.
So that means that the dimensions must
be paired. That means we have to have
nine points in each of three
planes
surfaces rather than four and a half
points in each of
six lines, six linear dimensions.
Well, that sort of does the trick
because that tells us that the
dimensions have to be paired into these
planes. And that tells us that what we
really have to have, let's see if I can
find it,
is on each of the planes, we have to
have this little vortex shape that's
going to have nine points on it. And
we're going to have three of them to
penetrate each other. And you've seen
this from the previous lectures. This
I'm calling a shushin flower which is
what's described in the introduction to
the zohar. And what you can see it comes
from is that these are three loops here.
And what they really are nothing but
these three loops but curled up some
more.
So this is just a curled up version of
this.
And this form somehow has to have these
27 points array on it. Well, that's
exactly what we've done. You see, if you
take the form and you put the Hebrew
letters on them on, this this this round
cube is supposedly be this, but
something I could write on the olive,
the yud, and the coup. The central
letters are actually in the middle in
that center point.
Then you've got a uniform distribution
of the 27 letters in a way that's
completely analogous to the way the
mathematicians have distributed the 27
points.
Now, Consider shows this in two
different ways. He shows an anagonal
projection which is three concentric
sets of nine. Very hard to project these
hyperdimensional objects. He shows a
docal
version which is two rings of 12 and
then three stacked up in the middle.
And in discussion with S Paul sak and
others we've come to the conclusion that
if you
have these forms they also define
in some very fundamental way Roger
Penrose's twister.
Now where do we get the twister from?
Here we're dealing with these these
hyperspherical things. And here we've
got this this set of nested donuts.
Well, again, it's Arthur that pointed
out that a solid Taurus in three
dimensions is equivalent in many ways to
a sphere in four dimensions.
And so what we've got here is a sphere,
a hypersphere, except it doesn't have to
be in hyperdimensions. If we make three
levels of donut, why three levels?
Because we've got to have an inside, an
outside, and an in between.
Now we're getting someplace because now
what we can do is we can come over here
and we can look at the turret, the
reflexive turret, which folks that are
here tonight are probably familiar with.
Now, I'm not saying these are the same
categories. We're dealing with a
topological situation here and we can
make any number of sets of categories,
but I'm saying that whichever categories
we use are going to be isomorphic to
this set that Arthur has used. I just
pulled this out out of um the appendix
3lex of universe I believe. Yeah, out of
appendix one. And the whole beauty of
this is that just like on the donut,
it's symmetrical. The in and the out
parts are reciprocal. And every level is
reciprocal. And we've got these four
levels.
In fact, I don't have it here and I
haven't worked it out in detail, but I
think we can compare these four levels
to the four letters of the four-letter
name of God.
In fact, there's even one that repeats.
You see, because this this idea here,
this middle one, which I'm calling
action together, is actually part of
this this one, this one, which I'm
calling action within and action
projection. And we're going to get that
in a minute. So that in fact, we could
really do it with the four-letter name.
Very compactable. And we could use the
four-letter name to generate our
fundamental tetrahedrin. And our
tetrahedrin is going to open up into
this hyper tetrahedrin. And in a sense,
it is a hyperteted.
Now, not only that, but let's let's
figure out another thing besides the
twister, which we now know comes in
three lay layers. The twister and the
orbold from super string theory are not
the same objects. They're not the same
thing, but they partake of the same
topology. And the fundamental object in
super string space is this twister form
which in complex three dimensions has 27
corners to it.
Now the low order form looks very
suspiciously like our alphabet
generator. After all it's a donut with a
hole in the middle, a spin axis and
three singularities.
I think that you can see the similarity
here. This is the hole and these are the
three singularities. And if it was in a
hyperdimensional space according to the
mathematicians there would be 27 of
these singularities and they would be in
the same form the same relationship as
the 27 points in complex three
dimensions which is what they're saying
there or the 27 lines in four dimensions
which are intrinsic in the point itself.
It's going to get easier folks. Bear
with me a little longer. I know this is
going all over the place with numbers
and for the purposes of time I really
can't do all the details. It's more a
matter of just showing it.
Okay.
So, what are we to make of this? And
what does this tell us?
Well, it gives us a hint as to what's
going on with the alphabet. Because if
we make the presumption that the 27
letters and these 27 lines or 27 points
are the same, then we should try to see
if there's some underlying logic that
holds the two in common. Well, we know
the logic of the ideal mathematical
forms. This is a very very symmetrical
3x3x3 system in this hyperdimensional
space. What if the alphabet were the
same way? What would it look like? Well,
it would have three levels to it
and that's what we find in the alphabet.
And I think that's what we want to go to
next. I want to check my notes to make
sure I haven't skipped anything.
Now, if we can back up and make a
language out of all of this and see if
we can figure out what the issue is.
Look, to make a language,
a universal language, which is what
we're trying to make because that's what
the religious traditions claim that's
what the sacred alphabet is supposed to
be for. It has to be common to all
consciousness. It has to be very
elegant.
Um,
and it has to do what language does.
What does language do? What does
language do? What does language do?
Right? You point at something. You name
something. You you you have to if I if I
were walking around and I pointed to
this thing
and I wanted to tell you about this
thing, I could call you into the room
and I could point to that thing again.
But if you weren't in the room and I
didn't want to do that, I could make a
drawing of it maybe or I could make a
noise. How am I supposed to know what
noise to make?
Well, here's the theory. This is what
we're going to go with.
This is a non-llinguistic theory. This
is a non-drift theory. We're not talking
about we're not referring to what the
linguists are are doing. This is a
different level of understanding of
language.
When I take my arm, my hand and I point
at something,
my hand does that pointing because there
is a map on my motor cortex for my hand
that tells my hand how to point. And
that motor cortex map is not just a
photograph of my hand in some particular
position. It's a dynamic model. It tells
my hand how to move. It's got at least a
beginning and an end to it. In the
middle, too, probably. And so that
dynamic model can't be just a
three-dimensional model. It has to have
dynamics in it. It has to have change in
it. That is what a mathematician would
call a hyperdimensional model. It would
have to have some additional
information.
Well, if it's a hyperdimensional
hyperdimensional model, if our
conceptual space on our motor cortex
which directs the motion of our hand is
hyperdimensional, say four, five, six or
seven dimensions, then this geometry
holds. And the natural parts of that
map, no matter how my neurons are wired,
no matter what kind of brain I have, no
matter what my biology is, if I am
directing this kind of motion, I must be
making use of these 27 directions in
that map. That's the lowest way that I
can specify the whole map.
And therefore on my motor cortex there
is some kind of a map laid out in these
27 directions. And let's say I want to
make a sound that corresponds to my
pointing.
Well, what's the most obvious thing to
do?
Is that the sound?
Um, the most obvious thing to do is to
co-opt the same map as I used to move my
hand and slide it across my motor cortex
for my hand to a region in my motor
cortex for my hand that it serves
another purpose. Language is controlled
by a sub region of the motor cortex for
the hand, broker's region. The other
language control regions are there. And
if I try to take the same map and just
slide it across some some kind of neuron
transfer thing and then use the same set
of of map of of coordinations to
articulate the muscles that make make my
sound rather than move my arm, I'm going
to end up making a sound. But who knows
if it's the right sound. I mean, there's
no obvious hardwiring connection. This
is a conceptual map, but I hear the
sound I make and that comes back into my
sensory cortex through my ear.
And I'm saying that the map on my motor
cortex that moves my hand and the map on
my motor cortex that makes the sound and
the map on my sensory cortex that hears
the sound are all hyperdimensional maps.
And the feedback loop that connects all
of this is also a dynamic map. And all
of these
have 27 parts
or the 22p part version. I don't want to
get confused with it. In other words,
it's it's back to to to to what Crit is
saying. The unique unity and union are
one. All three cortex maps have to be
the same for that sound to have meant
what that hand did.
And so what I'm saying may be the case
is that these letters, as we're going to
see, are not initially the letters of
ordinary language, as the linguistic
theorist would have you believe. Later
they became that. They were co-opted for
ordinary speech. But they are instead
the natural pieces of the envelope of
the reflexive process that any
self-aware creature must use to form any
language.
that it is necessary in its lowest order
that this projective process have these
27 pieces that they have the same
logical structure that Coxer and the
group theoretic physicists point out and
that that's no matter what we really do
we can always simplify what we've done
to this 27 element system. It covers the
whole gamut.
Now the only way to find out if this
makes any sense is to try to use it. And
so we're going to try to use it. But
before we try to use it and go to this
matrix of meaning for the letters of the
alphabet, we have to somehow recognize
what this generator for the letter
shapes has to do with this map on our
cortex.
Well, what is this shape?
I said at the beginning I was going to
call it naked recursion.
That's another fancy word for
a kind of self- embedded reflexive
structure
that basically every module of this
self-referential process has to partake
of this. And so what could this thing
be?
Well, if you had a sphere in three
dimensions, it would have three
diameters that would be perpendicular,
right angles to each other, cartisian
cross.
If you had a sphere in four dimensions,
there would be an additional diameter
perpendicular to the other three, but we
couldn't see it. It's the one that we
correlate with dynamics, with change in
in three dimensions. It's the one that
relates inside to outside in three
space. In fact, going to four
dimensions, you can actually take
right-handed things and convert them
into left-handed things by rotating
through hyperspace. Theoretically,
so it's this inside out direction. This
is the missing diameter of the
hypersphere projected back into three
dimensions. It doesn't have to be a
hypersphere. What we are calling the
mathematicians are calling a
fourdimensional a three sphere in four
space is really nothing but the dynamics
of an ordinary sphere in three
dimensions. And this form that connects
the inside to the outside of a fruit, a
dimpled sphere, an idealized fruit, this
is that diameter.
And so if I can see all of these
possible orientations, all of these
letters, if they correlate to these 27
directions, then this alphabet gives me
a way to point in hyperspace or in
conceptual space to all the
possibilities. Well, I just said it to
point. You see this is a hand.
This is a model. This is not only the
flame of consciousness.
This is our model of inside projected
outside.
When I want to do something in the
universe with my will. This is the
instrument of my will in the world is my
hand. I could use my foot foot. I could
use my nose. But I mostly use my hand.
If I wanted to make an alphabet that
would be equally good for the world of
physics, the real world,
and would be good for meditation, why
meditation? Well, let's step back again
and say, what's this alphabet for? Let's
say you find yourself off in the um
desert
3 4,000 years ago, 2500 years ago, 3,500
years ago, biblical times.
And
I fell off a camel. I hit myself in the
head, was wandering around. There was
this funny mushroom next to the rock
there, and I tasted it.
Um I pricricked my finger and got
poisoned
and had a terrible experience. I just
didn't eat for a few days. I wandered in
the desert for a long time. I ended up
one way or another having a mystical
experience, a transcendental experience.
And it's an integrative experience. It's
a healing experience. Modern
psychotherapists report that when you
have these peak experiences, these
transcendental experiences, you come
back a more integrated person. Your
inside and your outside are more attuned
with each other.
But this is an ineffable experience. You
can't describe it in words by
definition. No matter how good you are,
there isn't any language you could use
to describe this. So, how can you pass
on this teaching, this ability, this
this this this experience?
Well, obviously, if you fell off a camel
and hit yourself in the head, it's not
the way you want to reproduce the
experiment. It's not really very
reproducible. But if you had a
means of reexperiencing this, a
meditation, a sequence of exercises,
breathing exercises, dancing, yoga,
mudras, and asas, whatever it might be,
different traditions use different
means, different people use different.
And if you could somehow specify the
experience so someone else could retrace
your path, then they would have the same
experience.
And so if somehow there were a means of
specifying a meditation
internally,
that would be a much better way of
reproducing the experience than simply
writing down I had this wonderful peak
experience which I can't describe
because then the next person who could
retrace your path exactly would have
supposedly an equivalent a related
experience.
And so we want an alphabet that's going
to work inside too. Not only does it
tell us what direction to point in the
world,
but it also has to be visualizable
in our mind's eye.
Now that's what makes this so beautiful.
There are two teachings about the source
of the alphabet. One of them is that the
letters come from fire or flame. in the
other in Hebrew is that these letter
shapes and these are the formal shapes
all of them are made up of the letter
yud this small little letter they're all
composed of little pieces of yud
that's a nice teaching
and it's obviously true in terms of
calligraphy but yud also means hand
and the one thing that every human being
can automatically do, it's a survival
necessity, is visualize their own hand.
You close your eyes,
try it. Close your eyes and point
towards the ceiling. Hold your hand any
way you want. You will be able to see in
your imagination, in your mind's eye,
where your hand is, where your fingers
are, where your palm is.
And so if you put the hand in your hand,
you can feel it against your skin,
you can immediately visualize
the letters.
What is more natural as a source of an
alphabet
than to take from the hand the letters
in the same way as the speech is taken
from the motor cortex for the hand in
the brain.
And how was it forgotten that the
letters came from a hand? They wrote it
down. It says it comes from yud. Except
people thought it meant small yud
instead of the hand. So now we have the
ex the physical
metaphor, the physical expression of
outside of our inside being used for the
purpose of connecting outside and inside
and outside.
And this is the first important finding
is that what we're really looking at
here, what's really going on is that
this naked recursion, this self-
embedment is our hand. This is how we
express our inside in the outside world.
This is our way of embedding ourselves
in reality is our hand. All right.
Now I think I want to go directly
towards the most difficult and
controversial part now of this
presentation and we'll come back with
questions and comments to some of these
other ideas and I think there'll
probably be lots of questions because
what I want to do now is present
something that's unbelievable. It's not
that others haven't said it, it's that
they haven't said it in a way that was
credible. I certainly never believed it
before. the claim that that the Hebrew
letters are the actual elements of
creation and are natural elements and
are were originally a universal language
knowledge of which was lost at Babel and
things like that. Who would believe
that? Many people have said it, of
course. In fact, it's even been
demonstrated to some extent. There is um
a computer program that you can buy
based on the Arabic alphabet that
translates between languages. called
Reedware by a company called MITI out of
I think Washington DC. There's some
local people there we've spoken to. They
they base their their computer system on
um the second sur of the Quran and they
don't know why it works.
So it does seem to work but I think this
is the underlying reason why it works.
And what I want to do is I want to go
through the alphabet letter by letter.
Now most of you should have alphabet
charts. And what I want to do is use
these basically these these charts and
this chart here. And I think rather than
my continuing to give you all this
theory, I should put these definitions
of the letters on the table and let you
take them home and try to use them.
So let's see if we can do it. Here is
fundamental process, fundamental
self-organization.
And I'm saying that this sevenst step
process
is the tree
and that it connects between unity and
wholeness, between the seed and the
fruit with new seed inside between a
point sphere and a sphere point. And it
does it in just under four dimensional
steps. Never quite makes it to four
dimension because as soon as you get up
to homelessness, it's got a new seed
inside and the old fruit is eaten up by
the chicken. I've mixed a few metaphors
there, but you know what I mean. The
chick finishes all the white before it
cracks the shell.
All right, let's let's lay out the logic
and then let's let's apply it.
First, we're going to start with unity
and we're going to end up with
wholeness. And we're going to do that in
three levels of the algorithm.
And the first step beyond unity is the
first distinction. The first distinction
in what? The first distinction par
excalance. Whether it's Spencer Brown's
mark of distinction between inside and
outside. Whether it's a newborn child
gasping for air and starting to breathe
in and out. Whether it's the child's
consciousness coalesing around the first
voluitional act, the taking of food in
whether it's the birth itself or the
breaking the egg itself,
the first distinction is between inside
and outside.
breaking open and then then there's
action then there's a relationship
between the two parts between inside and
outside
then there's continued opening which I'm
calling division here then there's
action together which is equivalent to
the turn then there's multiplication
which is the opposite of division in the
same sense as Arthur says takes on its
own center and throws off centers here
it takes on a center by repeated
division this subtractus form here it
throws off centers by multiplication and
the golden mean unfilman.
And again this is another kind of if
this is internalized action if this is
action together then this must be
externalized action projection. And then
if this is opening this must be closure.
Now we're going to apply and then after
closure we we come back to wholeness.
The fruit encloses itself. The egg shell
is finished and now we have wholeness.
Now, we're going to apply these
principles to three levels of the
alphabet, and we're going to examine how
the meaning of the Hebrew letter
corresponds to this chart.
Now,
I don't think people can read this
unless they've got in front of them, but
I I will go through it.
Every Hebrew letter has a name,
and those names have meaning.
And many of the Hebrew letters have
known explicit meaning as either
prefixes or suffixes which
complement the meaning of the name. And
so every Hebrew letter comes with a
whole story.
What we're going to find is that for
every Hebrew letter name, there is an
equivalent English word that has the
same meaning.
It's going to be surprising enough. And
then we're going to find that any word
in any language that we can
transliterate into Hebrew, we can
translate on this chart. And we can find
root word meanings by only referring to
the chart. Now, these aren't idiomatic
meanings. These are operational
meanings.
Okay, here's olive.
Olive is spelled A, L, and P in Hebrew.
It's the high point. It's all
consciousness. It's the whole thing. The
English word is out or aloof or alive.
Those all have the same roots with
allowing for a little phonetic drift.
Now if olive over here
is
all consciousness the whole enchilada
the whole thing the big
unity
and at this first level of the alphabet
is the archetypal level
then we should have a repetition of that
meaning at the next level which I'm
calling the inside the intermediate
level which is as mentioned in the
quotation the level of wisdom.
And then finally at the third level of
the alphabet, the next the final nine
letters, we're going to have the
outside, the physical embodiment as
opposed to the spiritual, the physical
as opposed um to the mental. This is
going to be physical and material. We
have another set of nine. So if this is
all consciousness, then the yud, the I
is obviously our personalized internal
consciousness. ID English word has the
same spelling as the Hebrew word yud.
And the last letter kuf in Hebrew means
a copy or it means a monkey or a skull.
But the word kuf is connate to our word
cap or copy. It's a k instead of a c,
but it's a hard c. So it's c o p copy.
C. Cap. And so we have and and that's
the monkey. That's the physical
consciousness. This is our internal
consciousness, the small consciousness,
the little point. And this is the whole
enchilada,
big consciousness, the great light.
These three together spell something in
Hebrew. Q
I A Kia key is the word in Hebrew for
eruption or for vomiting. And that's
what's going on at this central point.
This is the point where the system
erupts from. This is the central point
of the middle the influx where the whole
system erupts from. And of course it's
cotton to the to to the eastern idea of
the key the the life force the vital
energy chi is the normal spell
pronunciation. So this is the first
three letters.
The next three are B K and R.
B is the as I said the distinction
between inside and outside spelled in
Hebrew B YT.
It's our word bit. This is obviously not
a phonetic drift theory. The word bit
didn't mean first distinction until we
had computers
or bite bt.
Hebrew the Hebrew word bet traditionally
means a house.
That's the distinction between inside
and outside. We would call that word in
English booth. Little house. The Hebrew
letter bet is given a numerical value of
two. But the cognate word is both.
If B is this distinction between inside
and outside, then what's K? Well, that's
the word cuff in Hebrew. Cuff in Hebrew
means as a prefix like as or like.
It's spelled
here. It is K P.
It means a cup. A cuff or a hoof. And
the reason it means like is because when
you cup something, you get things that
are like each other. Cupping is making
something like.
And in fact, if b if b is the
distinction between inside and outside,
cupping also cuff means the palm in
Hebrew
holds in
And therefore you're going to know what
the ration is. Rat in Hebrew word r
means head. It means point of that
radiates out from means to rush means a
ruse. And so this is the distinction
between inside and outside. This is to
hold in and this is to radiate out.
Next we have gimmel lammed and sheen. C
l and s
in English. Gimmel is spelled gimmel
lammed. And we know in Hebrew that the
man means from and the llama means to.
And the gimmel is our letter C. And the
word gimmel means a camel. And a camel
goes back and forth in the desert
between two oases. It comes and goes
from and to
gimmel mem lamid. Come and go. Mem from
lamit too. Camel goes back and forth.
That's why it's called the camel.
Well, and I'm I'm saying that that's the
quantum of action. That's the that's the
action. That's a little photon, little
quantum related to light. Um, if that's
the idea of action, then lambid has to
be internal action. The word lammed
means to study, to learn, or to teach.
The English word that I think comes
closest is blooming or looming. Spelled
very similarly. And the s
sheen in Hebrew, which means a tooth,
means luster, it can mean three, it can
mean a notch.
Um, that's the external light. That's
the external action. The Hebrew spelling
is
sh actually pronunciation, but s i n.
Well, the external luster is a sin or
the sun or to shine. S h i n e. Same
spelling phonetically as the Hebrew name
having the same meaning.
Archetype of action, internal action,
external action.
Then we have D, M, and T. Well, D, we
know the Greek word for D is delta.
In Hebrew, it's dot, but they mean the
same. They mean to open up in a kind of
dissipative way. The way a delta does,
when the river reaches the ocean, it
spreads out. It divides from within,
opens up, divides itself into the ocean.
Water spread out.
And so dalat in Hebrew, we look at the
chart. Some of you have the charts that
they're available. Uh means a door and
it means to pour out. It can mean p o r
or p o r.
And the idea of a delta in Greek I think
is the best way. The English word of
course that corresponds would be dilate
or dilute.
Same sense to dilate to open out to
dilute. The river obviously pollutes
itself as it enters the city.
Well, what's man? Well, man, we all know
man. Me in every language means mother
or sick. It's to divide from within,
from the womb, to open out from inside
to divide. And ma'am, the word ma'am
would be cognate to our word ma'am or
mom or a.
And there there probably others like
that, too.
Um, let's look at the last one, the T.
Well, a T in in English is is a cross
form, an alternating form. T in Hebrew
is tub is the name means a sign or a
mark means to engrave itself. It's
reflexiveness itself.
It's our word sub
to cut out engrave out of it's tab to to
cut a tab out of something. And so if
this if the if the M is division
internally this propagation opening from
within the TU is this kind of
alternation reciprocation self action
and so I'm saying the the letter T
refers to the word itself.
This one I always like the E, the N, and
the final K.
Um the prefix hey in Hebrew means 'the'.
The word hey refers to
a window. It's also the the feminine um
singular ending very often just like we
have silent e.
Speaking of window, I think we might
want open the window back there.
Okay.
Open the window.
Hey, as you can see, has a a double form
to it. Okay. Well, let's see. From your
direction, it looks like that. It's got
a little little one and a big one around
it. It's the inside and the outside
together. In and out. You see the B
is in or out and the H is in and out.
Uh, and it means designates. It means
it's also a prefix referring to the name
of God and the idea of God being in and
out together. The whole enchilada, the
whole thing.
Enchiladas today. Obviously
for folks watching the tape, this is
being taped in California, so we
eventualize it. Um, the N, if this is
the idea of opening a window, a
connection between in and out. Well, we
know what the letter N means in English.
It's the word letter that we always use
when we connect something. In fact, N in
Hebrews, the name of the letter is nun.
N U N usually in English, but it could
be just as well spelled N O N. And the
noon connects the AM and the PM in the
middle. The noon is the neck, the nexus.
That's n
the internal connector between the mind
and the body. It's that kind of
connector. And the K, the K is a final
version of the earlier K. It indicates
possessiveness.
It indicates external connection as a
suffix. But look at these letters um
together. E, N, and K. Well, turn them
around. N E K. That spells neck.
B, K, and R spell or B R and K spells to
break. To break open the A. C, L, and S
is slick is action is motion. D, M, and
T. There's no really good one. I'm using
demote as the sense of dilution. And N,
E, and K means the neck is a neck is a
nexus is an internal middle connector
bringing things together.
Now we know we've did this first half of
the chart. So we know what's going to
happen coming up the other side of the
ark. If gimlman and sheen are action
between limits
then zion I'm sorry then sic and final
mem must be another kind of of I'm sorry
I skipped one. They have to be like dm
and t confused. If b and t are this
division then above me and and final me
above sonic and final me must be
multiplication. In fact these are the
letters that correspond to the golden
mean functions.
The v corresponds to the lost digama in
Greek which was replaced by the letter
fi which is used to designate the golden
mean. And the letter v the name v means
a pin.
Um it means and in Hebrew. And so the
idea of multiplication is and and and
and
vav spelled ff is our word f vibration.
It's that kind of and it's doing this.
It's the o in do in the word do. It's
that oo when it has a vowel sound of oo
in Hebrew. The sonic we don't have in
English. But if the VB is the golden
mean, then the Sonic is the inverse
golden mean and the final me which is a
square shaped sic is the golden mean
squared. Sonic is an interesting letter.
Sonic in Hebrew means to sustain or
support. It's spelled this this not
really an S, but this sonic letter, then
an M, and then this final K.
Well, that's our word smoke. And the
smoke ring is the lowest order form that
self- sustains in a uniform homogeneous
cosmic jello. It is the fundamental
support to this reality. This is sic.
Well, it also looks like this. It's a
circular letter.
The final mem is the same meaning as the
medial mem. It's the sea, but in this
case, it's the external C. It's the
hierarchy of wave motion. Instead of
being the womb, it's the external
hierarchy. It's got a masculine
connotation. It's self- reference acting
on itself generation on generation.
Okay. Now, we go to the next one.
Zion final nun G O and the final N. You
can't see it too. I may use too dark a
marker. Now, this is a more beautiful
example. The word Zion in Hebrew, which
should be over here, literally means a
weapon or an axe.
But A B C D E F G. Oh, it's a Russian G.
That's why it's got the Z sound to it.
So if it's a G and not a Z,
then the word is G, a vowel, and an N.
And we know that as gain or gun or go
on. So it's called a weapon or an axe in
Hebrew, but it has the same meaning in
English. Most extraordinary. The ion,
the ion in Hebrew,
ion means just what it sounds like. It
means an eye or a well. And in fact the
cognate is I own or this internal
possession to to go deeply inward. You
see Zion is a gun is projecting outward.
Then ion is projecting inward
and the final end just like we had a
medial end was a neck or nexus. What
does an N at the end of a word mean? In
English in mathematics we say takes
something to the nth degree.
It means to go on out forever to
continue on out. So the
the Zion is to project the ion is to
project in and the final note is to
project out to extrapolate. Let's go one
more. Let's do H P and final P.
Well, this letter, this hey aet, I'm
sorry, in Hebrew looks just like the
Greek letter pi. And in fact, the Hebrew
meaning of the word fet means a fenced
field or a perimeter, which is sort of
what pi is about. Het is spelled h e t
or h a vowel t. That's our word hat or
hut. Something that surrounds you, a
fence field, a circumference.
P in Hebrew, the letter P is in the same
position in the alphabet as the Greek pi
and it does refer to the same kind of
piish function except P is to engulf to
swallow to bring in. So it's a volume
taken inward and the final P same
meaning is the volume pushed outward to
puff outward.
And if we take them together, I didn't
do the three together for the G O and N.
Well, G O and N mean to go on, which is
just what this projective idea is.
This is H and whatever the bowel might
be and a couple of P's. Well, that's a
hoop,
which is this surrounding idea. This
pish idea.
Now, finally, if this was unity, then
this is going to be homelessness. So the
T which is equivalent to R our RJ a jet
a tit
goes beyond this completion if this is
individuation I'm sorry this is breaking
open then this is ego this is
individuation then beyond being born
beyond being individuated there is a
gratuitous function that finishes the
cycle that is when a parent gives a tip
to a child the suckle or the child is
suckled the child will survive if it's
not suckled but it's not complete And so
Tet means completion.
Jet, tithe, total are the same words in
English. The sadi sun is an interesting
word. If the t the j is is the idea of
completeness, then sadi must be
spiritual completeness. Well, the word
sadi in Hebrew means a righteous person.
That's sad. It corresponds to our sort
of English word zodiac.
But that s sound can also be an st. And
if we have st a vowel, a d and an i,
which is how you spell the letter si,
the name of the letter, then that's the
word study,
which is of course to stand upright, to
be complete in inside, that's the study
person. It also relates to justice.
The um the final side, if this is a
righteous person is an upright person,
then this one must be upright in the
physical world. And so this one is a
tree.
Now what do we have? We have a
completely logical system based on the
turn embedded in the anog because after
all if we take the seven stages of
process and we embed them between unity
and wholeness we have an anog we have an
inog do we oh well wait a minute that's
what we have over here isn't it three
levels of nine in a logical matrix
unfilling from very simple principles
hierarchically three levels
a archetypal level an intermediate level
and a physical an internal an external
level the same as the three levels here.
Why do they have to be three levels?
Because inside, outside, and in between
is what defines the solidity of the
twister. You see, if it didn't have
three levels, it wouldn't be a
hypersphere. It would be incomplete.
That's the only way we can project it.
Every cycle has to have three points on
it. If I were to have two flashing
lights, you couldn't tell this was a
circle. But if I had three lights
flashing in sequence, you could tell
this was a circle. It takes three counts
to define rotation, the circulation. And
that's why we have a matrix that is 3x
3x3. Here is another version in the form
of an apple or a Taurus closer to the
Penrose Twister, closer to the Taurus.
The same principle. This is these are
just alternate drawings. The little
sketches are to give you some sort of
schematic idea of what the words mean.
But the words could be any other set of
words that have the same topological
relationship to each other. They have to
form a complete and diagonal cycle with
the seven stages of process embedded
within them in three levels. Now I gave
you some examples of words. I want to
give you a few more and then I have some
list of words plus um in case people are
interested. This is a totally
independent work
showing that there are actually Hebrew
roots to English words and pointing out
that the reason we think there was an
Indo-Uropean language group is because
of political considerations by northern
Europeans a couple hundred years ago
when it was politically impolite to
attribute
European
words to Semitic or African roots. And
so they created according to this fellow
um for political and religious reasons a
Indo-Uropean language group theory. In
fact, the original dictionaries written
in the United States used Semitic and
African roots. The original Webster Vix
dictionaries, they only switched over to
the so-called Indeuropean and Latin etc.
stuff after the uh what was it called?
The the high tradition of scholarship in
Northern Europe.
Well, the word for letter in Hebrew is a
nice word. I like that word. It's the
it's spelled AFT,
pronounced ought.
Look what it says. I'm saying the
letters come from this form of naked
recursion.
Allah
is all consciousness.
[Applause]
V
is the idea of doing or unfurling or
vibrating.
And to is acting on itself in its own
image. And so ought means consciousness
unfurling itself in its own likeness.
I'd say that's about the same meaning as
naked recursion.
The transformation between the forms
which I didn't get to before which is
all new material. And I didn't get to
talk about some of these other figures
either. The this figure called the
schmoply double six represents some of
these 27 lines projected back into three
dimensions. We have 12 of them. As you
can see, it has this unique pattern to
it, which is very much like the Tardine
pattern that I was talking about earlier
that corresponds to to the the little
decorations that are on the letters.
Some of the letters have these
decorations on them, and those turn out
to be these corner pieces. This same
form turns out to sit, as Fuller shows,
around an icosahedral ball in an
ubahedral shell. And so we can make this
27 line form
using the cube octahedron.
This is actually only 12 of the of the
schloffly double six form. And this has
some interesting properties. You see
these skew lines ought to be the
sighting directions for the letters
physically.
Now,
if you take this guy
and you connect this point to this and
this point to this and this point to
this to make it into a donut by curling
it around on itself,
this is what you get.
This is the second lowest order knot
that you can make, the 34 knot. And even
though it's not obvious, this form is
the same as this form. There it is flat.
In fact, you can see it. Here's another
version. These are topologically
identical, all of these. And so these
distinctions in not theory form the same
structure. But here we have the 22
letters
forming the core. If I can get it up in
there.
[Applause]
And then if we would extend the letters
that become finals out onto the rim
above and below then we have the 27
letter form. You see the 27 is on the
spherical form and the 22 is on the
linear form. This is like the
relationship in super string space and
this is like the event. The 20 the 27 is
like the event. So there's a direct
transform on all of these knots. In
fact, let me show it to you. This is the
34 knot.
All I have to do to make it into the
trifolium is to pull it out.
And there is my tfoil form which is up
on the walls and has a tetrahelix in the
middle of it. It's just a just couple.
It's just topology. It does it to
itself. There's there's no need to do
anything. Um,
by the way, you cannot make a
tetrahedrin out of it. It is not
symmetrical. It has to be a double
figure to do that which explains some of
it. And I want to fit this in too. There
is a motion that unfurls all of these.
If one moves according to these orbits,
then one produces the form. If you have
a central point,
okay? And you do this. The point
explodes in three directions and pulls
apart and twists simultaneously. comes
up like this taichi achiloype motion.
Here's what you get.
These edges
coming up out of this tetrahedral shell
out of this iicosahedrin in the middle
because that's what's in the middle.
This is the three intersection. See the
center? These three edges turn out to be
if you start with a hyperteted in the
middle
the same as these rubber bands and it
comes right up into 27 line figure.
Okay. Now I think that it is a good idea
to take a break. There are a lot of
questions that people can ask and I
really haven't covered um all the
details. What I wanted to do was get the
matrix of meaning for the alphabet out.
There is one more thing that I want to
share with you and that is how does one
connect these letter shapes with the 27
directions but we'll leave that for
after the stretch. Also for after the
stretch I want to deal with questions
and with word examples. Now I've got a
whole bunch of examples that I brought
plus you can throw some at me. I don't
know how well I'll do. It only works
about 80% of the time because there's
lots of reasons why this is an imprecise
art. But I think we should discuss some
of the implications of this. So stretch
time.
[Applause]
Traditionally, of course, this nice
shape is the same shape as the ram's
horn,
um, which is said to have been created
during the creation of the universe. And
so when people say, well, how come your
letters look like these rabbitic hands
that these rabbis have your model on the
table? No, they didn't have my model on
the table. They had our choker on the
table. So they could easily have made a
letter.
There's um people wanted to see what the
letters really look like. So let me tell
you that you can see the letters on
either hand. For instance, from my point
of view now, I can see two letter M's in
Hebrew. Both of these are M's. And guess
what? What if we were to draw a line
between these two M's? We would have a
direction. And there of course be 27 of
them. So it may be very easy to make the
27 correlation simply by lighting up the
two ends of the line. Here are two ends.
Um also another thing that's interesting
you've all heard about the code which is
a front back reflection code that was
used in the cobalistic tradition. A is T
and B is S and C is R. Well, that's how
the letters pair up. You see when I hold
the letters like this in my left hand I
see the letter A. And in my right hand I
see the letter T. If I hold my hands
like this, in my left hand I see the
letter S and in my right hand I see the
letter B.
And so the front and back of the
alphabet are mirror images of each
other.
Now I do Huh.
Language.
Yeah, this could be a natural hand
language. In fact, what I'm proposing is
that this is the ideal language for
hearing impaired people because it could
be learned immediately by people who can
hear. Everybody can visualize their own
hands and these gestures have intrinsic
meaning. That's why there are mudras and
the eastern traditions because those
gestures bring up particular feelings.
Also, I wanted to point out that
everything that I can do with my
self-referential hand, my thumb to my
hand, I can also do with my hand to my
arm and my arm to my body. And just like
there are 12 around one for this 13
petal rose fruit,
there are also not counting the jaw or
even counting the jaw, 12 joints in the
body from the tip of my finger to the
tip of my toe.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12.
And so we are 13 petal roses just as the
introduction to the Zohar says. And
mapping our body onto our mind, our body
is mapped on the motor cortex of our
mind is the same as mapping the where is
it? the fruit tree onto the fruit.
See, we are just like the fruit. Our
mapped on our minds, on our seed, on our
fruit, if you will, is our body is our
life cycle. That's how we control
ourselves. So, the embryionic metaphor
for vegetable world fits in our world,
too. I want to want to read something.
Um, we started with the first verse of
Genesis, but now we have individual
translations for each of the letters.
So, I could now read this first verse of
Genesis off of the alphabet charts. What
do you suppose it would say?
Let me read it. You tell me what you
think it says. Now, I could be using
other words, and I'm picking these words
off of the chart selectively, but I'm
always using the same words for the same
letter, so it makes it a little
redundant. But listen to this. This is
what's translated. In the beginning, God
created the heaven and the earth. In
Hebrew it's elimar
breaking open inside outside rushing
radiating reaching all life shining
source light in inner being itself
recurring in itself
breaking open inside outside rushing
radiating reaching all life all life
blooming kindling inside lighting
looking open in without an inner being
golden flowing moving outward in itself
all Life itself recurring in itself.
Looking open in without shining source
light inside dividing in inner being
golden flowing moving outward in itself
doing living co-evolving all life itself
recurring in itself looking open in
without all life rushing radiating
reaching treetops upright bearing
wholeness carrying light.
Now if you take away the poetic level
which I like anyway and you could do it
a lot of different variations.
This is a continuous spiraling system.
In fact if you look at it carefully it
is literally describing
these three layers.
And so the text of the first verse,
which geometrically folds itself up into
the form that makes the letters, also
describes the way you scan the form to
see the letters. We're talking about
self- embedded here, par excalons. This
is naked recursion.
Okay. Now, let's go. Um, so some
questions and then I'll intersperse them
with some examples of words. And I want
to start off with a word that I always
like myself and it's the word that is
obviously attributed to the Latin.
Everyone knows where albino comes from,
right? Albino.
LBN.
Okay. In Hebrew, there is a word that
means white and it's lavana. LBN.
You would never expect that. Okay. Now,
questions. I saw some around here.
Can you try to imagine
that you're a Chinese here in the
audience listening to Span Tennant say
that somehow it is the Hebrew alphabet
that has managed to capture within
itself the various dimensions of
reality.
Well, I would say I'm not saying that.
I'm saying that the reason why the
Hebrew alphabet is what it is is because
it's reflecting a natural property of
the world of reality. After all, it
doesn't matter which tradition claims pi
as its own. Pi is intrinsic to the
world. This way of making letters and
language is intrinsic to the way our
consciousness is organized. It is
embodied in different cultures and
traditions in very many different ways.
But the fundamental topology is the
same. What the Hebrew has preserved is
that topology in its essence unadorned
whereas other traditions haven't
necessarily we don't we have the Genesis
text is the oldest intact record that's
the only priority.
I would imagine therefore that you would
be very much interested in listening to
this kind of an analysis by um
your um
opposite part among the orientalists.
Absolutely.
A matter of fact, in in this book, this
is really strange. I don't know how
legitimate it is. This is a, as I said,
it's completely independent work. I
haven't met the fellow, although he we
we we ought to get connected. He he
points out he gives an example here,
although he doesn't give an attribution
of that's the one page I can't get to
where it goes. He's got a little
alphabet chart here and he shows a
Hebrew alphabet and he shows a bunch of
alphabets that people think are related
like Greek and English. And then he
shows what he calls old Japanese. And
some of the letters are readable as the
same as they are in Hebrew or Greek. And
the reason is because they're come from
these archetypal shapes. I think now I
haven't checked this but it's not others
have proposed that there is a
connection. And also here's here's a
here's a connection too. If you look
through the seven principal symmetries
of the tetrahedrin
I know the model's here. Here it is
along these these seven axes.
There's seven independent axes, 10 10
tips. Then what you're going to see if
you pair up the the flame shapes are
these seven yogic postures. It's the
body language that was preserved in
eastern traditions. I'm not talking
Chinese here, but but eastern
traditions. Whereas the legal text, the
written language preserved in the west.
That's why I'm making a connection
between the Abrahamic and the Brahic
traditions.
I think they took they come from a
common source and you know it's a matter
of cultural claims which one has
priority. I don't want to do that. If
I could just add something you mentioned
Chinese perhaps at random but uh when
you were talking about the tortoise it
was making connections because there's a
I don't remember the details but an
origins a source of origin for I think
it was the hexog pattern the e king who
some philosopher I know his name was
staring at a turdish ta shell and saw
that
and the turtle pattern holding up the
world comes both from the east and from
the Amarindian traditions both. which is
very surprising because now we just
found out it comes from the Semitic
traditions too.
When you're talking about Genesis being
the oldest text and a couple years ago
when I heard your lecture you were
talking about how the first work that
you were doing was on you know the first
part of Genesis and that was obviously
the first Genesis story and you said
that there was embedded systems in in
other parts of the Bible but you didn't
get into it at the time. Um my question
has to do with the first and the second
um Genesis stories and and the um the
obvious illusion to the to the many or
the Elohim in the first creation story
and the Yave in the second creation
story and what does that have any
relevance to your work?
Well, it probably does. Um but I'm not
looking at the word meanings because
they're too controversial. I'm not an
expert in it and there's so much
nonsense that's been said. It's just
another voice screaming into the into
the surf. Um,
my feeling is that we should read the
text letter by letter as we learn the
definitions of the letters and let the
text tell us what's going on rather than
impose these these theories on it which
we could argue all the time. Um, I think
now that what's happening is let let me
say it. I think that if we get this
right, if we can figure out what this
natural unfoldment is and we keep track
of it in the way that was intended,
which is going to be the most compact
and economical way, we are going to be
able to show that the sequence of
letters in the text of Genesis is just
as determined as the sequence of digits
in the decimal expansion for pi.
That is a natural artifact of this
universe at the 11 level.
In fact, that quality is very similar to
pi. After all, the text, you're not
supposed to change a letter, it' be
destruction of the universe. If you
changed any digit in pi, it wouldn't be
pi.
Same kind of thing. Who wrote pi? Did
God write pi or man write pi? You know,
there are uh statistitians who've shown
that there were letter patterns
throughout the books of Moses. Um the
observant people, the religious people
say, "Well, that proves only God could
have done it because how could you write
these intense, deeply, you know,
convoluted mathematical patterns and
still have it read like text and the
Bible scholars who don't believe
anything said, "Oh, that proves that
that that it can't have come from God."
That man had to have made it up like a
double cross that Ezra sat there and
worked out all these patterns.
And they both are using the same
evidence to prove the opposite. But I'm
saying they're both missing the point
that pi is not written by God or man
alone. Pi is determined by God, by
nature, by reality, but it's written in
our number system for our benefit. The
pattern in in in the Bible in in the
Torah is a pattern of creation, not
because some religious fanatic said so,
but because like pi, it is demonstrable
from this reality and co-generates this
reality.
So that we ought to be able to unfurl
the sequence of letters. Here's another
way. Here's another problem. People have
said that the five books of Moses can't
have all been sacred. can't have all
come from God because they were written
supposedly over a thousand years. So,
how could these patterns go from one
text to the other unless someone
redacted them all together? But everyone
knows, and I'm not good at this, if
you're doing something in Tai Chi or if
you're swinging a golf club, you have to
follow through. If you're in a deep
meditation
and you're following through a sequence
of feelings leading towards this
brilliant point of trans of
transcendence, then there is only one
path. There is only one follow through.
And to continue to unfurl the text as a
prophet might be able to means merely to
stay on balance on that line to ride the
surfboard ashore. You don't have to do
anything but stand upright on the
surfboard.
In fact, standing upright on the
surfboard is a very good analogy for all
of this because in tommet there is a
phrase used to designate a person of
integrity. They were called topho
kavaro. That means that their outside is
just like their inside.
But if you can make your outside like
your inside, these are inversions to
each other. Bringing your outside and
inside together is symbolically
self-abnigation.
That's the meditation. That's the loss
in the med loss of ego in the
meditation. That's why this is also
Aladdin's lamp. Alladen, the judgment of
God. If you meditate, if you rub on rub
this thing, if you feel it, it forms in
your mind's eye. In the meditation, you
can manifest things if you want to. I
don't know if you want to use your ego
there, but that's where reality becomes
flexible. So, this understanding of an
alphabet that connects inside and
outside, as Nick Herbert says, one of
the greatest scientific achievements
imaginable would be the discovery of an
explicit relationship between the
waveform alphabets of quantum theory and
certain human states of consciousness.
If we can bring inside and outside
together, then that's a self-obligation
of reality. We're all in an egoist
state. That's why this is a prophetic
and messianic teaching when it comes to
that those kind of words. But it means
changing the world means tinkering with
the roots of consciousness.
Okay.
Um I do a lot of yoga. So I I was
wondering how you evolved that
particular set of of you know yogic
designs.
purely from the man. All I did was let
Akam shave himself.
Look, that's what the text says. Here is
a string of letters that folds up into a
form that makes the letters that the
text is written in. And the string of
letters also specifies how you walk
around the form to make the letters. AAM
is shaving himself. There ain't no AAM
there. There ain't no razor. It's just a
it's just it's just self-reference. It's
just it's just iron soft. It's just
cosmic jello falling through itself and
where it results.
I should go to the side.
Yeah. Um, is there any argument that
Hebrew isn't the foundation of all
languages? Is that what I'm picking up?
No, I'm not saying that. In fact, what
I'm saying is that
well, my feeling is that this is
intrinsic to consciousness. And so,
in some sense, this language was created
with the creation of the universe. And
therefore all living things at all
levels at all times have partaken of it.
But in our historical stream whatever
reality that has because who knows the
tradition that has preserved the
material intact that is the oldest is
the one that comes with the Old
Testament with the with the five books
of Moses. There are others who have
obviously picked up on it. In Islamic
Spain, the Muslims, the Christians, and
the Jews had a lovely time together for
a while till the Inquisition showed up
and they shared all of this knowledge
and they reelaborated what the Greeks I
mean they there are there are references
that say that Pythagoras studied with
the Sanhedrin and the Sanhedrin studied
the Pthagorian material because they had
to know the secular and world also. And
so these high traditions knew each
other, knew of each other. This was what
I what I think we've got here is is a
fundamental worldview of the ancient
world but kept in its pure form in its
survivable intact form in the scripture
that's come down to us. Um
but we we can relate that to uh canan
and back to sume. I thought that's
already been proven. I mean uh Hebrew is
the oldest dialogue of Canaan.
All right. Let me there's a difference
between knowing this technically and
understanding its depth. The Greeks
helanized supposedly this material into
an external embodiment. And so instead
of recognizing as Rabbi Shiman in the
Zohar says that these geometries are an
aid to meditation, they started to make
idols, shiny metallic things that you
could use as totems. You know, look at
all the magic we can do with this. Oh, I
had was doing a magic trick before. Oh,
very mysterious. Watch.
See, they're hooked together.
Yeah. I mean, here there are so many
cheap magic tricks one can do if one has
a little consciousness edge on the on
the population that these ideas can be
easily abused and externalized.
These are not things. These are
relationships. This is topology. It's
not stuff. If you take it as stuff,
you're making pagan idols. And while the
Samrians may have might have known the
math, they didn't have the Abrahamic
tradition that inside and outside was
one.
[Music]
Heat. Heat.